hello this is Scott I'm here to tell you
about some fantastic handlebar bags made
by Arkell a Canadian maker of
top-quality touring bags I actually own
both they're large and small handlebar
bags the large bag is an older style bag
that holds 10 litres or 650 cubic inches
the small bag is the new style and hold
7.5 liters or 450 cubic inches here the
dimensions of the two bags were
side-by-side comparison I've listed
their prices as well Arkells bags are
noticeably expensive especially when
compared to discount brands however
Arkells bags are also better made
there's no plastic hardware to break
instead all hardware is made of aluminum
and the bags are made of water
propelling rip proof Cordura fabric
that's supported by structural walls
Arkell even provides a sample of the
corduroy which has a slit cut in it and
then dares you to tear it
I couldn't tear it even a little as I
talk about the bags I'm going to point
out some improvements to the new bag as
well as a few features I liked about the
old bag this is the large bag
Arkel claims it's the largest handlebar
bag on the market I can believe it I've
received a lot of comments about the
sheer size of this thing
I'd refer to it as my drafting partner
although it never takes a pool it is
even served to keep my hands warm on
cold ride since its large enough to hide
my hands behind it on paper it seems a
little heavy at two and a half pounds
but it's rugged enough to hold a lot of
stuff including heavy objects like
cameras and tools although it seems a
little heavy some research revealed that
it's within ounces of many of his
competitors the small handlebar bag is
about the same size as other makers
large bags it holds plenty of stuff too
and it features the same structure and
weight carrying abilities as its big
brother
the small handlebar bag is half a pound
lighter than the large bag
weighing in at two pounds remember this
small bag is the newer design it
features a reflective silkscreen logo
rather than the sewn on label that I
feel gives the older bag a classic look
this bag also features different pull
tabs in the older version I find the old
pull tabs would be more robust and
easier to use with winter gloves
I contacted
Arkel and they were happy to offer
replacement tabs both bags feature side
mesh pockets for storing wet or quick
access items the large bags pockets are
actually big enough to serve as
cupholders the front pockets on both
bags are advertised at 2 inches deep you
can see that they both look deeper than
that when they're stuffed the large bags
front pocket is 9 inches wide in five
inches tall the small bags front pocket
is one and a half inches narrower since
the bag is obviously smaller here in the
small bags pocket I have a vest and a
pair of winter gloves in the large bags
pocket I have a Gore raincoat and a pair
of winter gloves the large bag also
features a slot behind the pocket it's
good for holding Maps energy bars or
other small items that I might want to
stuff somewhere temporarily the small
bag does not feature this slot
the newer bags feature better curvature
of the mat case it's a little flatter
than the older style and makes it easier
to read cue sheets or maps without
having the stretch to see the top of the
sheet this isn't an issue for new
customers since both the large and small
bags have the improved view the map case
presents one of only two gripes I have
about these bags both map cases are just
a little too narrow to hold an untrimmed
us letter size sheet of paper that's
been folded in half this is a very
common size for maps and cue sheets in
the United States even worse however is
that the case is tapered at the opening
making it even more difficult to insert
the map my workaround is to simply put
the map under the entire case as shown
in this photo if I expect the right in
the rain then I put my map in a freezer
bag put it all under the case and then
tolerate the mismatched sizing for a day
my other gripe is with a feature that's
actually a very good idea I just don't
need it all bags feature this flap
that's intended to cover up the mounting
hardware when the bag is being carried
with its strap I decided I really don't
care for this feature because it bunches
up over the top of the mounting hardware
and tends to interfere with my computers
it also blocks my access to the bags
release tabs when it's time to remove
the bags in fact I dislike this feature
so much that I opted to cut the flap off
of my large bag after a couple of months
of trying it out my small bag is still
kind of new but I'm cutting this thing
off now that I've done recording this
video both bags feature a high vis
yellow interior that makes it really
easy to find things this is especially
helpful when riding in the dark the new
bag features about an inch of overlap
between the zipper and the top of the
compartment you can see the overlap when
I close the bag this greatly improves
the bags waterproofness the old bag
features a storage compartment in the
lid however this lid cannot overlap the
top of the bag like the new lid does to
be honest my old bag has never leaked
but it's cool that the new bag has
improved water resistance removal of the
bag is quick and easy on my other bag
where this flap is trimmed off I don't
even have to lift it out of the way
I just put my fingers on these two tabs
push them in and lift up my mounts are
adjusted kind of tight to eliminate
rattling on the road so I need to give
it a little jiggle as I lift to get it
back on I just slip it back over to slot
and J
as I push down until it clicks Arkel
offers rain covers for these bags
however I've never really felt the need
to use one I've been on plenty of rainy
rides including 100 miler and continuous
rain and my cargo has always stayed dry
in fact check out another video I made
that answers the question is Arkells
handlebar bag really waterproof in
closing I can assure you that I'm
excessively pleased with these handlebar
bags the minor gripes I've presented are
far outweighed by the quality durability
and overall value of Arkells products
feel free to post questions if you have
them I'll do my best to answer thanks
for watching